---
title: "Read in 2019"
layout: post
date: 2020-1-2
comments: true
---
I read a lot of books in 2019. I did not count books assigned in my last semester at Duke or books I did not finish. The list is in the order I finished them.
<p>I loved every work I read by Anaïs Nin, all of them sexy and surprising and beautiful. Sontag's <i>Illness as Metaphor</i> and particularly <i>AIDS as Metaphor</i>, as well as <i>Oppression and Liberty</i> by Simone Weil which I started in the spring and plan to finish in 2020, made me reconsider my relationship with science and medicine. <i>This Life</i> by Martin Hägglund allowed me to see both atheism and anti-capitalism in a more coherent way.
<i>The Magic Mountain</i> was a striking meditation on the passage of time. All summer long I stayed at home in Portland feeling much like my life had come to a standstill. This book gave me 850 pages to take that as its own form of learning.  I read <i>Argonauts</i> on the train home from upstate New York with my little sister asleep beside me. Family is a precious thing.
</p>
<br><i>The Goldfinch</i>, Tartt 
<br><i>Anagrams</i>, Moore
<br><i>Less</i>, Greer
<br><i>Poisonwood Bible</i>, Kingsolver
<br><i>Illness as Metaphor, AIDS as Metaphor</i>, Susan Sontag
<br><i>Let the Great World Spin</i>, McCann
<br><i>Gods Without Men</i>, Kunzru
<br><i>Reborn</i>, Sontag
<br><i>The Last Communist Virgin</i>, Wang Ping
<br><i>Once and Forever</i>, Miyazawa
<br><i>A Bollywood Affair</i>, Dev
<br><i>Regarding the Pain of Others</i>, Sontag
<br><i>Brave New World</i>, Huxley
<br><i>Glamorama</i>, Ellis
<br><i>The Waste Land</i>, TS Eliot
<br><i>House of Holes</i>, Nicholson
<br><i>Mary</i>, Nabokov
<br><i>Candy</i>, Southern and Hoffenberg
<br><i>A Spy in the House of Love</i>, Nin
<br><i>The Sorrows of Young Werther & Novella</i>, Goethe
<br><i>The Left Hand of Darkness</i>, Le Guin
<br><i>Normal People</i>, Rooney
<br><i>Collages</i>, Nin
<br><i>Home Remedies</i>, Wang
<br><i>Written on the Body</i>, Winterson
<br><i>The Magic Mountain</i>, Mann (Woods)
<br><i>My Year of Rest and Relaxation</i>, Moshfegh
<br><i>Housekeeping</i>, Robinson
<br><i>When Strangers Meet</i>, Stark
<br><i>The Stepford Wives</i>, Levin
<br><i>Single White Female</i>, Lutz
<br><i>The Radium Girls</i>, Moore
<br><i>Untrue</i>, Martin
<br><i>Winter of Artifice</i>, Nin
<br><i>Honor</i>, Shafak
<br><i>Pamela</i>, Richardson
<br><i>Tropic of Cancer</i>, Miller
<br><i>This Life: Secular Faith and Spiritual Freedom</i>, Hägglund
<br><i>Delta of Venus</i>, Nin
<br><i>Seduction of the Minotaur</i>, Nin
<br><i>Found in the Street</i>, Highsmith
<br><i>A Little Life</i>, Yanagihara
<br><i>Where the Crawdads Sing</i>, Owens
<br><i>A Doll's House</i>, Ibsen
<br><i>Argonauts</i>, Nelson
<br><i>Quaint, Exquisite: Victorian Aesthetics and the Idea of Japan</i>, Lavery
<br><i>Memento Mori</i>, Spark
<br><i>The Price of Salt</i>, Highsmith
<br><i>Chilly Scenes of Winter</i>, Beattie
<br><i>Sense and Sensibility</i>, Austen
<br><i>House of Leaves</i>, Danielewski
<br><i>A Visit from the Goon Squad</i>, Egan
<br><i>The Little Friend</i>, Tartt
<br><i>Severance</i>, Ma
<br><i>Submission</i>, Houellebeqc
<br><i>Lake Success</i>, Shteyngart
