---
title: "Read in 2020"
layout: post
date: 2021-1-2
---
This year's books, in the order I read them.

<p>Quarantine began around the time I finished <i>Journey by Moonlight</i>. As usual, I read mostly literature. I enjoyed the smattering of theory books I read (Weil, Paglia, Scarry). This was a rare year that I sought out a little more nonfiction: <i>Only One Thing Can Save Us</i>, <i>Voices from Chernobyl</i>, <i>Silent Spring</i>, <i>The Unbanking of America</i>. I was getting kind of tired of escapism. And maybe I missed learning specific things.
<br>Like many things this year, favorite books felt more like a slow burn. <i>The Last Samurai</i>, <i>On Beauty and Being Just</i>, <i>Tropic of Capricorn</i>, and <i>Oppression and Liberty</i> took me a while to finish. I love books from people who write with a level of artistry: Henry Miller obviously, Helen DeWitt also, and Simone Weil for that and her incisive understanding of her world and, in fact, our world still. Elaine Scarry is very funny and very respectful of beauty, also two things I love to read. And finally, <i>Fair Play</i> was a perfect meditation on a long life of love and a little bit of bickering. And being an artist, and living in Finland.
<br>I wonder how to best reflect on or summarize a short list from a very long year, and I think about the hundred or so books I have on my reading list, and the one I'm still in the middle of right now (Perlstein's 800 page retelling of American politics in the 1970s and 80s, <i>The Invisible Bridge</i>). This year I raise the books I would love to revisit: <i>Oppression and Liberty</i> is first on this list. <i>The Crying of Lot 49</i> and <i>Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me</i>, both for moments of total illegibility, Pynchon more so than Fariña, although they pair very well because they knew each other. I often read more from specific authors I love (Paglia, Nin, Miller) or am curious about (Houellebeqc). But I don't often reread. In each of those cases I think it would be worthwhile. 
<p>
<br><i>Story of the Eye</i>, Bataille
<br><i>Sex, Art, and American Culture</i>, Paglia
<br><i>The Red Parts</i>, Nelson
<br><i>Oppression and Liberty</i>, Weil
<br><i>Death in Venice and 7 Other Stories</i>, Mann (Lowe-Porter)
<br><i>Against Nature</i>, Huysmans
<br><i>Too Far To Go</i>, Updike
<br><i>Only One Thing Can Save Us</i>, Geoghegan
<br><i>Serotonin</i>, Houellebecq
<br><i>Journey by Moonlight</i>, Szerb (Orringer)
<br><i>The Crying of Lot 49</i>, Pynchon
<br><i>The Easter Parade</i>, Yates
<br><i>We Have Always Lived In The Castle</i>, Jackson
<br><i>A High Wind in Jamaica</i>, Hughes
<br><i>A Tale for the Time Being</i>, Ozeki
<br><i>Skylark</i>, Kosztolányi
<br><i>Fair Play</i>, Jansson
<br><i>The Memory Police</i>, Ogawa
<br><i>Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas</i>, Thompson
<br><i>The Last Samurai</i>, DeWitt
<br><i>Verity</i>, Hoover
<br><i>Ladders to Fire</i>, Nin
<br><i>Valley of the Dolls</i>, Susann
<br><i>Damned</i>, Palahniuk
<br><i>Prince: The Last Interview and Other Conversations</i>, Prince
<br><i>Been Down So Long It Looks Like Up to Me</i>, Fariña
<br><i>A Children's Bible</i>, Millet
<br><i>On Beauty and Being Just</i>, Scarry
<br><i>The Wallcreeper</i>, Zink
<br><i>Caucasia</i>, Senna
<br><i>Things: A Story of the Sixties</i>, Perec
<br><i>Gone Girl</i>, Flynn
<br><i>Voices from Chernobyl</i>, Alexievich
<br><i>Silent Spring</i>, Carson
<br><i>Benchere in Wonderland</i>, Gillis
<br><i>The Unbanking of America</i>, Servon
<br><i>Tropic of Capricorn</i>, Miller
